---
title: Governance
weight: 9
---

# Vision & Mission Statement

[Carpentry@UiO](https://www.uio.no/english/for-employees/support/research/research-data/training/carpentry/)
is the UiO local relay of the international
[Carpentries](https://carpentries.org) organisation.

We are a group of volunteers from the University of Oslo and beyond.
With support from the University of Oslo Library, we offer to PhD
students, researchers and others at UiO, and beyond:

- foundational coding and data science skills workshops from [Software
    Carpentry](http://software-carpentry.org/lessons) and [Data
    Carpentry](http://datacarpentry.org/lessons)
- [Study Group events](https://uio-carpentry.github.io/studyGroup)
    dedicated to open and reproducible science, knowledge sharing,
    re-enforcing learning or discussing new subjects for future
    workshops/lesson development
- educational development and networking opportunities with the
    possibility to become Certified Carpentries Instructor and/or
    Carpentries Instructor Trainer

Our activities and community are open to any member of the UiO community
including staff, faculty, and students, paid, and volunteer. We believe
the Carpentries' teaching methods are efficient and can speed up take-up
toward the adoption of Open Science at UiO.

## What do we do?

Our primary activity is organizing and teaching hands-on foundational
coding and data science skills workshops using the materials and
practices of the Data and Software Carpentry organizations. The club
will also provide educational development and networking opportunities
for instructors. To maintain transparency, board meeting notes, workshop
schedules, and all other club activities will be posted publicly on the
web (when possible) at the Carpentries@UiO website.

## Contributing

Carpentry@UiO is open to anyone interested in teaching foundational
coding and data science skills outside of the traditional UiO
curriculum. All our members abide to the Carpentry@UiO code of conduct.

If you wish to teach or help at upcoming workshops, please reply to the
calls regularly sent to the organizers @ carpentry dot uio dot no
mailing list or contact carpadmin @ carpentry dot uio dot no. For more
information, please refer to [the Carpentry@UiO onboarding
checklist](https://github.com/uio-carpentry/organisational/blob/master/workshop_operations/onboarding-checklist.md#how-do-i-get-started-with-teaching-a-carpentries-workshop-at-uio)